High in this video we're going to look at colorable.
And so this is just a little bit of terminology.
So what is a colorable or a callable is any object that can be called.
You say the parentheses operator.
That's really all it means is that you can take an object you use then these parentheses after the object
name potentially with something inside like parameters or without and then it does something it makes
a call.
Now callable will always return a value.
The value could be none but it will always return a value.
So things like functions and methods those are callable.
But it goes beyond just those two.
There's a lot of objects in Python that are callable that are not technically functions and methods
to see if an object is callable.
We can use the built in function called callable.
There's a built in function and Python code callable you put it in an object you pass a parameter an
object and it will tell you whether that object is callable or not.
In other words can you put that parentheses operator.
Essentially can you apply the call operation to that object using the parentheses.
And if it's true it will tell you.
Yes you can do so.
And of course then we'll always return a value.
So for example we can say callable of print will print as a function so it is callable right.
You say print parentheses and then maybe something inside the parentheses.
So it's true right.
It is a callable saying they give a string of strings have methods.
So if you take ABC dubbed upper and you put your parentheses.
That's going to call the upper method on that string and it's going to change.
ABC lowercase to ABC uppercase right so it is also a callable string not upper.
So this is a little different.
You'll notice in the first example I had a string instance of the String class and the String class
while upper isn't bound to the class.
Right upper is bound to the instance but it's for a callable.
We'll see that in detail in later sections on object oriented programming finally callable.
Well that's callable too right.
Collabo is a built in functions are callable is callable So that's kind of weird.
But that returns true.
Now if you pass something else like an integer for example a callable of ten is false then 10 is not
callable you can say 10 and parentheses it doesn't do anything it won't work right so even if you pass
in a string or a list so there's also a ton of objects that are not callable.
So let's see what different types of quotables can be.
So we've seen already a lot of the built in functions like print Lenn and callable.
All these are callable.
They're just regular built in functions built in methods right.
Like the string dot operator of an append method on a list right then you have user defined functions
things that we defined using def and lambda expressions.
These are all callable as well.
Our own methods writing classes things are bound to an object provide other bound to an instance or
bound to a class.
Those are also callable but they called methods that we have classes.
Classes are Goebels right.
This is kind of the first one that's a little bit different than a function.
It's a class well when we create a new instance of a class what do we say we say my class and then we
have these parentheses.
Calling my class and we're passing in potentially some parameters for what happens during that whole
process.
Well the first thing a python does is it actually calls the done the new method that's defined in my
class.
Now you may or may not have to find the new method.
But if you haven't then the parent object like you know what will actually have the new method and so
it will know how to instantiate them.
Now you can override this done to a new method and will get it to that detail later on in the schools
object on honor programming but for now just realize that if you call my class write it is callable.
You can call it and it will actually call this method.
Now this method will actually create the new object then it will call the Dondre init method which is
what we've been using so far to instantiate our object.
Well it's not actually instantiating the object it's initializing the object.
By the time init is reached the objects actually already been created and it's passed in to this self
parameter here.
And then it returns the object finally as a reference of course.
Now class instances can also be callable.
So once you have an instance let's say of my class it may be callable and we'll see how to do that.
But essentially you just have to implement the done to call method and we'll see that in the code and
then you have also other things like generators and code routines and asynchronous generators.
They're all kind of related to generators and we'll see that later on in this course as well.
But those are also callable.
All right.
So let's switch to some code and let's take a look at this in action.
It will make a lot more sense.
So let's look at callable the collabo built in function so we can look at whether something is callable
by simply passing it to this collabo build in function.
For example print print is callable right.
We can call print print Hello print you know we can call print.
Basically with this call Operation right this call operator these parentheses here is saying call the
object immediately preceding it.
And we can pass in parameters we don't have to.
We can just call print by itself was Brenta blank line or we can pass in some parameter or parameters.
Now every callable returns a value.
So in fact the print actually returns a value.
Let's take a look.
We'll do the same thing.
And then we're also going to print the result out.
So we should get two lines here.
And you'll notice the first one is hello because that's what the print statement does.
It just prints hello to the console.
And here we printed the result.
The result was none.
So it's still returned about yes it's none and that's perfectly OK.
That's legitimate but it's still returning something and you're always guaranteed that if something
is callable it will return a value which means you can always assign it to some variable on the left
hand side.
Now this works the same way with methods.
For example let's say we have a list of 1 to 3.
Now we have the append method on lists so we can check if it's callable.
And the answer is true it is callable right because we can say Eldard append.
Let's say for.
And then I'm also going to assign whatever word returns to the result.
And let's see what it does.
Here we're going to print up and then we're going to print the result.
OK.
So as you can see we printed l out so L has that element added in at the end right appended.
And then the return was actually none.
Now other methods do return something like If I have a string string equals ABC and let's say I want
to check if s dot upper right.
The upper property the upper method sorry is callable and the answer is true.
Now keep in mind I am not saying as Dot oper and then calling it right.
This is not the same thing.
If I call callable on that one am I going to get I'm going to get a false because what is the result
of estop upper.
Well it's a string.
Right.
So if I do that I get false.
So be careful with that.
We're testing to see if something is callable but don't call it because then you're testing what the
return value of that is.
And that may not be callable.
OK.
So let's take a look at the results of that upper right.
Now we're calling it.
And let's go ahead and print the results and the result is just the uppercase variant of S.
Right.
So that's again the return value.
In this case the return value is something we you know we actually want to work with the return of print.
Yeah probably not.
Now classes are also callable.
So for example let's look at a built in class let's say from decimal.
Let's look at the decimal class import decimal.
So let's import the decimal class from the decimal module and you'll see that decimal is indeed COBOL.
And yes we know that because we can say 8 equals decimal.
And now we can call it like we use the call operator and we can pass in a argument that's going to be
the value that's going to use for initializing it.
And we have that a is the decimal object ten point five.
And you'll notice that the result of calling the decimal class was the object itself was the instance.
Right so I'd return something and the return is something we're interested in.
It's the actual instance of decimal point type Bheag is decimal.
So 8 is the decimal is callable.
Now is a callable.
And the answer is No.
It's not coal but some classes can be callable Well sorry all classes are called some object some instances
of classes can actually also be callable.
They don't have to.
In this case obviously it's not right.
The instance of the decimal class is not callable.
So let's go ahead and take a quick look at how we might do that ourselves.
Let's go ahead and create a class let's say in my class and we're going to deaf in it so we're going
to create an initializer.
And that's the initialiser We'll take a parameter x and we'll default to zero and here we're going to
do something you probably wouldn't want to do this in general in your code.
But I just want to show where something is running.
So I'm going to say print initialising and then I'm going to actually create an instance variable an
instance property called counter and I'm going to set that equal to whatever was passed in for x K.
So this is my class.
It's a callable now right.
My class is callable because my class has this new method that we have over.
You know we didn't do an override of this method but it is there right.
It exists.
And then we also implemented the init method.
So now we can say a equals my class and we pass it may be an initial value of 100.
Right.
So you can see if printed initialising and random under init method and our counter property counter
attribute has a value of 100 as expected but 8 is callable or not.
It's not callable right just like we saw the decimal object wasn't callable object or instance of my
class is not callable.
However we can make a call by doing the following.
So I'm just going to copy paste the code.
And let's change that.
Let's say def Dunder call.
OK.
So we we're going to implement the special method called Call.
Now it is an instance method.
So we need to use the instance he has the first variable and then we'll use another parameter as well
some X and we'll set its default to one close thing we're going to do his will to say updating Kelner
and we are all going to update the counting.
And we're going to make it equal to itself plus whatever X was.
OK.
So now we have this my class this new version of my class.
So let's create an instance of it.
Right.
So here with calling my class my classes callable and of course it ran the initialising right.
It ran the init method.
Now how about this done the call how we're going to call that.
Well there's one way of doing it and we'll see this again in more detail later on in the course.
But one way of doing it would be to do it this way.
So my class datt done the call right.
This is just a function here is defined in my class.
Right.
But what does it expect.
While it expects the object that we are interested in.
So in this case maybe and then it expects this x value here.
While it doesn't expect it but it will take it if we provide it right.
It has a default songa.
It's provided though and set it equal to 10.
So if we do that you can see that it called this method right.
This updating can.
And if we look at the calendar then indeed we have that it's equal to 10.
Our initial value was 0 we added tenth to that.
But you can certainly call this call it this way.
And by the way any instance method can be called this way and we'll see that later on in the course
as well.
But really the way that we need to Koehler's so we should call this is much simpler if we look at where
the B is now callable.
The answer now is true right before our instance of my class was not callable but because we defined
this special method here called done the call it became callable which means that now we can just say
be we can Coleby right we can apply this call operation to B and you can see it ran down the call method
for us for a look at the counter.
It's now 11.
Right.
Or we could say be 100 and now it ran again and we can look at the new count of value and that's 100
and 11.
So this is how you can make instances of your classes callable as well.
So as you can see it's not just functions that are callable.
Right.
Yes at the end of the day a function is run right at the end of the day something is going to run a
function some way if you're running a if you're calling my class like my class it's going to run the
new and the methods.
If you're calling an instance of your class it's going to try and call the call method.
You know the Dunder versions of those things.
So at the end of the day yes it's running a function it's making a call so you're going to think that
hey everything is a function but they're not quite the same right.
My class is not a function.
Right.
What's the type of class.
It's a type.
Right.
So the type in my class is a type.
Same thing if you look at the type of decimal right.
It's a type as well.
That's not a function.
That's not the same thing but it is for a callable.
All right.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.